---
layout: post
author: W. William Wornardt III
---

***Press Release***

***11/21/2023*** **PHASE I COMPLETE: ODYSSEY ARM Advances to Phase II
Prototype for U.S. Army Soldier Virtual Trainer**

***RADIOSITY HOLDINGS, LLC (ODYSSEY ARM) in collaboration with Serious
Simulations,* Advances with Team CAE to Phase II of the U.S. Army
Soldier Virtual Trainer**

ODYSSEY ARM with prime partner Serious Simulations of Orlando Florida,
and CAE USA has been awarded the U.S. Army's Phase II rapid prototyping
effort supporting the Soldier Virtual Trainer (SVT) program.

The Other Transactional Authority award is a 20-month effort to finalize
the prototype of the Weapons Skills Development system, the SVT Core
computational system, and the Intelligent Tutor. The award to Team CAE,
and their industry leading partners, followed a two-year selection
process that included a broad industry participation, a down selection
for live solution demonstration, and a head-to-head competition for a
single-year development to the US Army.

As a component of the Synthetic Training Environment (STE), the SVT
prototype extends the U.S. Army's capabilities to empower soldier-led
training at the point of need. During Phase I, CAE collaborated with
industry leaders and team partners, including ODYSSEY ARM, Serious
Simulations, Haptech, FAAC, and 4C Strategies to develop the next
generation of virtual training solutions for the U.S. Army.

"*Delivering point-of-need training technology combined with advanced
learning science is a strength of our Defense & Security mission," says
Daniel Gelston, Group President, CAE Defense & Security. "Aligned with
U.S. Army training modernization objectives, CAE's expertise with
synthetic training environments provides effective operational readiness
to our soldiers."*

***"Our state of the art inside-out armament tracking solution is key
part of an integrated weapon instrumentation system for real weapons
that will enable soldiers to instrument and utilize their duty weapons
for point of need training with a vast array of display interfaces,"
says Han S. Ooi, CEO and Founder of Odyssey Arm.***

The SVT program is part of the Program Executive Office for Simulation,
Training and Instrumentation (PEO STRI) modernization effort to deliver
a Synthetic Training Environment that will transform how the U.S. Army
trains its soldiers to meet the demands of future missions. The program
will integrate several individual soldier training capabilities into a
next-generation training system. It is expected to replace legacy
training systems and fill critical training gaps, providing soldiers the
repetition necessary to train and succeed in multi-domain operations.

The Soldier Virtual Trainer prototype and other agile solutions for
next-generation capabilities are a priority of CAE Defense & Security to
address the adapting needs of global customers in alignment with
modernization priorities.

ODYSSEY ARM will continue to aid in the development of agile solutions
for next-generation capabilities.

RADIOSITY HOLDINGS, LLC

ODYSSEY ARM, LLC

Houston, Texas

[Read the CAE press release](https://www.cae.com/news-events/press-releases/cae-advances-to-phase-ii-prototype-for-us-army-soldier-virtual-trainer/)
